(Undergrad paper for an independent study in intensional semantics)

The purpose of this paper is to show why the desire verb, “want,” has an irregular semantics as a propositional attitude verb. Many attitude verbs, including “know,” “hope,” “doubt,” “be-glad,” and “wish” display a more or less fixed relation to belief compared to salient possibilities in a conversation. For example, in order for the sentence “I hope Elise is home” to be true, my beliefs must include the possibility that Elise is home. In contrast, the truth of “I want Elise to be home” does not require I believe it possible that Elise is home. Nevertheless, in a given context, what we believe to be possible plays an important role when we describe relative desirability. For example, a speaker can restrict salient believed possibilities in the sentence “Given that Elise isn’t home, I want her to be at the store” yet still want possibilities outside the believed circumstances in the same context: “If Elise isn’t home, I still want her to be home.” This supports a (common-sense) intuition that what’s desirable is independent of what’s believed. I will propose that the verb “want” has a modal base that is more circumstantially flexible than other attitude verbs. 
	The paper is structured as follows: Section I is an introduction to propositional attitude reports. Section II introduces possible worlds semantics and modality, and Section III explains some more technical semantics notation. In Section IV, I give a Hintikka-based propositional attitude semantics for “want.” In Section V, we contrast “want” with emotive doxastics, dubitatives, and other verbs of preference to bring out the relationship between attitude verbs and doxastic possibility. Section VI applies the naïve Hintikka-based semantics to a puzzle case, where we develop a more robust semantics to account for the fact “want” can quantify over the contextually salient possibilities, but also beyond them. Section VII introduces Kratzer’s conversational backgrounds and Section VIII applies them to a new semantics of “want.”  I conclude in Section IX that “want” has a circumstantial modal base that is untied to doxastic possibility, and note that this is unusual for attitude verbs.
